weighing in at over 400 kilos and up to
3 metres long this animal is no small
fry in fact one of its closest land
relatives is the elephant but because it
spends so much of its time cruising
around the murky waters of the mangroves
you don't often get to see it in all its
glory out here on the reef has to be the
best place to see it not just because of
the clarity of the water but because
Belize is perhaps one of the last
strongholds for this animal it's the
Antillean manatee
protected in Belize since 1930 there is
still much we don't know about this
normally shy and elusive animal we do
know that everywhere it's found its
endangered and we know it's the only
marine mammal that grazes solely on
plants hence its other name the sea cow
they're certainly well adapted to life
in the sea able to hold their breath for
up to 20 minutes a time that puts my six
minutes to shame and they can use each
lung individually to help control their
buoyancy to perfection I can't see why
they call them seekers and observers
while I'm Amish
fantastic there are almost as many myths
connected to manatees as facts could
they be responsible for the sailor's old
stories of mermaids
could a glimpse of that tail breaking
the surface lead to even taller tales of
sea serpent sirens and mermaids luring
sailors away from their ships
I'll let you be the judge of that